FXUS66 KOTX 212256
AFDOTX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service Spokane WA
356 PM PDT Fri Oct 21 2022

.SYNOPSIS....

A low pressure system will continue to impact the region with 
cooler temperatures, rain, and mountain snow along with cloudy 
skies into Saturday. A series of fall storm systems will continue
through next week. The next storm system will arrive on Monday
followed by a third late Tuesday into Wednesday. Each storm will
bring the potential for more valley rain, mountain snow and breezy
winds. Temperatures will remain below normal with the active fall
weather pattern as well.

&&

.DISCUSSION...

...Much cooler with the first mountain snow of the season 
continues tonight through Saturday...

Tonight through Saturday night: Snow has begun to fall at elevations 
above 4500ft including Mt. Spokane and Sherman Pass. The snow level 
will continue to drop overnight to about 3000ft. Snow is not 
expected to accumulate on most roads due to the recent warm 
temperatures even tonight. Rain will continue to fall at the lower 
elevations overnight. The precipitation will push out of the area 
during the day Saturday, with partly cloudy skies expected in the 
upper Columbia Basin. Temperatures have also been cooled in the 
forecast several degrees for tonight as well as the daytime 
temperatures on Saturday. 

Sunday: A brief break between systems is expected but temperatures 
will remain cool. Winds will be breezy with gusts to 30 mph but the 
area will remain dry. /KM

Sunday night through Friday: An active storm track will continue
over the Inland Northwest with our series of fall storm systems
continuing through the week. The next storm system will arrive
Monday morning with a warm front pushing across in the morning
followed by a cold front passage Monday evening. P-wats will
increase up to around 0.6-0.7 inches, which is about up to around
140% of normal. The magnitude of this P-wat plume is considered a
weak Atmospheric River and the duration on the scale of around 12
hours. It will be similar to the frontal system we are 
experiencing now actually when just considering the moisture 
content. The cold front does look to pack a bit more punch to it 
with temperatures Monday night dropping below freezing for many of
our mountain valleys, and may get to near freezing out into the 
basin as well. Snow levels look to be right around 4,000 feet 
across much of the region. This may result in some slush 
accumulations across our mountain passes with minor impacts 
possible. Otherwise, we look to lose our moisture tap as the 
temperatures decrease Monday night. Winds will be a bit breezy 
with this storm as well with wind southerly winds in the warm 
sector through Monday afternoon gusting to between 20-30 mph 
across the exposed areas of the basin. Cold front passage will 
bring a shift to the winds from the west. Winds aloft decrease 
behind the front and not much packing of the isobars in the 
surface gradient with winds expected to decrease into the evening 
and overnight hours. Snow amounts above 4,000 feet look to be in 
the 4 to 8 inch range. Higher amounts with 6 to 10 inches possible
will be possible near the Cascade crest. Clearing mid level 
clouds, weakening winds and increased boundary layer moisture will
increase the chances for fog in the mountain valleys of northeast
Washington and the Idaho Panhandle for Tuesday morning.

There then looks to be a 18 to 24 hour break between weather
systems with the next one set to arrive Tuesday night into
Wednesday. Models look to be digging this wave a bit further south
as it moves across the region. This would place the best dynamics
aloft across Oregon and into southern to central Idaho. It will
bring another chance for snow in the mountains, but better
moisture transport does look to be south of the region. The
weather pattern will keep temperatures on the cooler side and
below normal for mid to late October. /SVH

&&

.AVIATION... 
00z TAFs: Rain will continue at most sites through the night
before decreasing Saturday afternoon. MVFR/IFR conditions are
expected due to low ceilings and reduced visibility. /KM

&&

.PRELIMINARY POINT TEMPS/POPS...
Spokane        34  47  32  50  35  49 /  70  40  20   0  10  60 
Coeur d'Alene  34  42  33  49  33  46 /  90  60  40  10   0  70 
Pullman        33  42  29  44  31  46 / 100  60  30  10   0  60 
Lewiston       40  47  38  50  35  52 / 100  60  30  10   0  60 
Colville       28  46  21  52  30  46 /  60  20  20   0  10  70 
Sandpoint      33  39  30  46  33  42 /  90  70  50  10  10  70 
Kellogg        34  37  35  42  33  43 / 100  70  50  10   0  70 
Moses Lake     33  52  29  55  37  53 /  50  20  10   0  10  50 
Wenatchee      36  50  35  53  37  51 /  40  20   0   0  20  50 
Omak           34  52  32  56  35  52 /  40  10  10   0  20  50 

&&

.OTX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
ID...None.
WA...None.
&&

$$
