FXUS63 KOAX 232040
AFDOAX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service Omaha/Valley NE
340 PM CDT Sun Oct 23 2022

...Updated Forecast Discussion...

.DISCUSSION...
Issued at 340 PM CDT Sun Oct 23 2022

Key Messages:

 - Very windy into tonight with gusts around 50 mph. A few gusts
   nearing 60 mph will be possible. Extreme fire danger for many.

 - Strong to severe storm chances late this afternoon into
   this evening. Damaging winds are the main threat.

 - Lingering light rain chances Monday, with seaonable
   temperatures this week.

The wind was as-advertised early this afternoon, with gusts of 35
to 50 mph across the area. And while RH values largely remained 
above 30 percent as of 3 PM, numerous fires had started across the
area owing to the very dry fuels. With winds expected to continue
to gust upwards of 50 mph into this evening, fire weather 
conditions will remain a concern. In addition, the strong winds 
were causing areas of blowing dust across southwest and south-
central NE into KS, so figure it's only a matter of time before we
see some visibility reductions in our forecast area. Otherwise, 
temperatures as of 3 PM were in the mid to upper 80s and had 
already broken daily records at Omaha, Lincoln, and Norfolk.

As far as the severe weather threat goes, latest CAM guidance 
(namely the HRRR) has trended slightly earlier with storms getting
into our area (around 21Z) which makes sense given ongoing 
cumulus development and convective initiation of at least 1 storm 
along a dryline extending from roughly O'Neill to Kearney. With 
dewpoints ahead of the dryline holding in the 50s owing to the 
deep mixing and overall modest moisture return, instability is 
lacking with SPC mesoscale analysis showing around 500 to 1000 
J/kg of MUCAPE for most of the area. In addition, model soundings 
suggest a fair amount of capping to surface-based parcels, so not 
sure how much storm coverage we'll see. Still, strong vertical 
shear will lend itself to decent storm organization and a severe 
weather threat. Plus, it won't take much of a downdraft to get 
even stronger/severe winds (70 mph) to the surface. Given the 
well-mixed and dry environment and resulting high cloud bases, the
tornado threat should be rather limited, though it's worth noting
that there will be plenty of low level shear and curvature in the
hodographs, so can't completely rule that threat out. In 
addition, some hail will be possible, though the main severe 
weather threat is certainly winds. In fact, this could be a case 
where a damaging wind threat could extend fairly far out from a 
given storm. Finally, should also mention that these storms will 
be moving fairly quick, with guidance suggesting speeds around 50 
mph. As far as timing, the threat should continue through around 
midnight as a cold front currently across western NE advances 
through the area overnight.

Behind the front, expect cooler, but seasonable temperatures 
through the week and into next weekend, with highs in the 50s and 
60s and lows generally in the 30s and 40s. Rain chances could 
linger in southeast NE into southwest IA on Monday as remnants of 
Hurricane Roslyn, which impacted Mexico, and some shortwave energy
ejecting out of the Desert Southwest move northeastward along the
front. However, the heaviest rain looks to stay largely southeast
of the forecast area, instead impacting far eastern KS, MO, and 
central to eastern IA. Current forecast is for maybe a few 
hundredths along a line from Omaha to Beatrice to a few tenths as 
you go farther southeast. That precip should exit Monday evening 
and give way to a couple dry days Tuesday and Wednesday as surface
high pressure builds in. Another upper level trough will begin to
approach by Wednesday night, though the strongest forcing and 
associated precip looks to track through OK and TX. However, there
are some signs that some leading weaker shortwave energy slides 
through the forecast area and brings some light precip sometime 
Thursday into Friday (still spread on exact timing).

Heading into the weekend, there's decent agreement in guidance 
that we'll be under high pressure and dry for Saturday. Another 
trough may approach Sunday, but nearly all ensemble members keep 
us dry through the day at this time.

&&

.AVIATION...(For the 18Z TAFS through 18Z Monday afternoon)
Issued at 1229 PM CDT Sun Oct 23 2022

Strong south winds will persist into tonight, with gusts of 40 to
50 kts possible at times. The winds are also leading to some 
blowing dust upstream, so would expect that to eventually make it 
here, with potential for MVFR visibility. Even stronger winds 
aloft (55 to 65 kts) will also lead to some low level wind shear 
this evening and overnight. A few scattered storms may move 
through this evening, but confidence in direct impact to a TAF 
site remains on the lower side. Most probable timing would be 
somewhere in the 00 to 04Z window. Any storms will be capable of 
gusts greater than 50 kts and possibly brief MVFR visibility. 
Behind the storms and a cold front, winds will become westerly to 
northwesterly and subside a bit, but still could gust around 20 
kts at times into early Monday morning. Finally, some guidance 
still hints at some MVFR ceilings ahead of the front, but vast 
majority keeps us VFR.


&&

.OAX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
NE...Red Flag Warning until 8 PM CDT this evening for NEZ011-012-
     015>018-030>034-042>044-050-051-065-066-078-088-089.

     Wind Advisory until 2 AM CDT Monday for NEZ015>018-030>034-
     042>045-050>053-065>068-078-088>093.

IA...Red Flag Warning until 8 PM CDT this evening for IAZ043.

     Wind Advisory until 2 AM CDT Monday for IAZ043-055-056-069-079-
     080-090-091.

&&

$$

DISCUSSION...CA
AVIATION...CA
