FXUS65 KLKN 232030
AFDLKN

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service Elko NV
130 PM PDT Sun Oct 23 2022

.SYNOPSIS...Active pattern will look to continue into the new 
week bring chances of rain/snow showers clear through the mid-
week. Colder temperatures will also look to follow with highs 
mostly in the 40s and lows in the 20s. 


&&

.SHORT TERM...Today through Monday. 

Latest radar and satellite imagery continues to see remnant 
showers make their way across the region bringing with them 
chances of light snow showers. Expect these showers to continue 
through the early evening hours as model agreement continues to 
see the exit of the trough eastward into Great Plains region. 
Conditions are expected to dry up later tonight as the troughâ€™s 
exit leaving the Silver State in decent northwesterly flow and 
minor ridging. As for winds, breezy to occasionally gust 
conditions can still persist for a majority of the day thanks to 
the upper-level jet still present in the eastern portions of 
Nevada. However, look for winds to calm as the jet moves off and 
synoptic flow becomes more zonal in the overnight. With conditions
calming in the overnight, latest guidance does see potential for 
some early morning freezing fog in the valley for Monday, but 
confidence is not very high. 

Heading into the later morning and afternoon hours of Monday, 
activity will look to pick back up as latest model agreement sees 
the edges of a short-wave brush Northern Nevada. Showers will look
to stick to mostly to the Northern Nevada area with latest 
guidance seeing most potential dropping out just south of the 
Southern Elko County Border. Rain will be the more likely type of 
precipitation for the valleys with current snow levels sticking 
mostly greater than 6500 feet for the day. Meanwhile, amounts have
be trending light for this event as most locations are staying 
around or under a tenth of an inch with all snow amounts being an 
inch or less. 

Temperature wise, look for tonight to be cold with low 
temperatures expected to hit the teens to low 20s by Monday 
morning. Meanwhile, there will be a slight warm-up for that 
afternoon, though still look for high temperatures to be in the 
40s to 50s for the day. 

.LONG TERM...Tuesday through next Sunday. 

A west to east flow on Tuesday will allow for a shortwave across 
the Pacific Northwest to move into the Rockies. Jet energy will 
push across southern Idaho and northern Nevada on Tuesday, which 
may bring isolated to scattered rain and snow showers to the 
northern and central sections of the forecast area. Afternoon 
temperatures on Tuesday will be in the 50s for the most part with 
light winds. The aforementioned shortwave trough is expected to 
dig late Tuesday night and Wednesday, bringing another round of 
rain and snow showers to the region. Overnight lows will be in the
20s to near 30s degrees. Wednesday's high temperatures will be 
cool as a reinforcing shot of cold air infiltrates the area. Look 
for readings ranging into the mid 40s to lows 50s.

The system is expected to depart Wednesday night and Thursday,
though some leftover showers are possible especially in the
eastern parts bordering Utah. If skies clear during the overnight,
the area will be looking at a chilly night. Lows will be in the
teens with some locations seeing the single digits. Winds will be
light. For Thursday, shortwave ridging will bring some quiet
weather to the area but afternoon highs will remain on the chilly
side with readings in the 40s to low 50s. Quiet and cold weather
can be expected Thursday night with lows in the teens and 20s.

Friday and Saturday, model simulations are showing quieter weather
with a southwest flow taking shape over the area. Highs will be in
the 50s with lows in the 20s. Winds will remain light. There could
be some unsettled weather for Sunday but solutions will need to be
better aligned with the next system. Highs will be in the 50s
Sunday afternoon.



&&

.AVIATION...Isolated lingering -SHSN will be possible in the 
early evening hours, though confidence is low at affecting any one
station. Winds are expected to subside, though gusty NW winds 
will continue to affect the KTPH terminal through the overnight. 
Conditions are expected to be VFR through tomorrow.


&&

.FIRE WEATHER...Latest radar and satellite imagery continues to 
see remnant showers make their way across the region bringing with
them chances of light snow showers. Expect these showers to 
continue through the early evening hours with latest expecting 
conditions to dry up later tonight. Breezy to occasionally gusty 
conditions will look hold into the late evening to nightly hours 
for most of Eastern Nevada today, but expect them to also quite in
the overnight. For next week, look for fire weather concerns to 
be more minimal as an active pattern brings chances of rain and/or
snow through the mid-week as well as potential breezy conditions 
for the afternoon hours. 


&&

.LKN WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
None.
&&

$$

94/86/86/94
