FLUS43 KILX 232011
HWOILX

Hazardous Weather Outlook
National Weather Service Lincoln IL
311 PM CDT Sun Oct 23 2022

ILZ027>031-036>038-040>043-047>053-241100-
Knox-Stark-Peoria-Marshall-Woodford-Fulton-Tazewell-McLean-Schuyler-
Mason-Logan-De Witt-Cass-Menard-Scott-Morgan-Sangamon-Christian-
Macon-
311 PM CDT Sun Oct 23 2022

This Hazardous Weather Outlook is for central and west central 
Illinois.

.DAY ONE...Late This Afternoon and Tonight.

South winds will gust from 30 to 40 mph through sunset, before
diminishing a bit in the evening. This will cause difficult travel 
for high profile vehicles on west to east oriented roadways.

Isolated thunderstorms are expected in west central Illinois late
this afternoon. Severe weather is not likely. 

.DAYS TWO THROUGH SEVEN...Monday through Saturday.

A period of steady rainfall is expected from Monday night into 
Tuesday night, with widespread amounts over an inch likely. The 
greatest rainfall is expected to be centered near the I-55 corridor, 
where there is some potential to receive at least 2 inches of rain 
through Tuesday night. The heaviest rain is most likely on Tuesday. 
While dry soils will limit the threat of flooding, some ponding of 
water may occur in poor drainage areas.

.SPOTTER INFORMATION STATEMENT...

Spotter activation is not anticipated tonight.

$$

ILZ044>046-054>057-061>063-066>068-071>073-241100-
Piatt-Champaign-Vermilion-Moultrie-Douglas-Coles-Edgar-Shelby-
Cumberland-Clark-Effingham-Jasper-Crawford-Clay-Richland-Lawrence-
311 PM CDT Sun Oct 23 2022

This Hazardous Weather Outlook is for east central and southeast 
Illinois.

.DAY ONE...Tonight.

South winds will gust from 30 to 40 mph through sunset, before
diminishing a bit in the evening. This will cause difficult travel 
for high profile vehicles on west to east oriented roadways.

.DAYS TWO THROUGH SEVEN...Monday through Saturday.

A period of steady rainfall is expected from Monday night into 
Tuesday night, with the heaviest rainfall amounts likely on Tuesday.
Rainfall amounts over an inch are likely, especially west of I-57. 
While dry soils will limit the threat of flooding, some ponding of 
water may occur in poor drainage areas. Isolated thunderstorms are
also expected on Tuesday, though severe weather does not appear
likely at this time. 

.SPOTTER INFORMATION STATEMENT...

Spotter activation is not anticipated tonight.

$$

Geelhart
