FXUS66 KLOX 231642
AFDLOX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service Los Angeles/Oxnard CA 
942 AM PDT Sun Oct 23 2022

.SYNOPSIS...23/513 AM.

High pressure will bring some warming and drying today, with much
more significant warming Monday. There will be gusty north winds 
in the mountains and across Santa Barbara County through tonight, 
then gusty Santa Ana winds across much of Los Angeles and Ventura 
Counties tonight into Monday afternoon. It will be chilly tonight
and Monday night across wind-sheltered locations in the interior,
with frost possible in the Antelope Valley. It will be dry Tuesday
through Saturday, with temperatures not too far from normal.

&&

.SHORT TERM (TDY-TUE)...23/939 AM.

***UPDATE***

Moderate offshore flow (-3 mb pressure gradient from Los Angeles 
to Bakersfield) with fairly strong offshore trends (a drop of 6 mb
last 24 hours) has yielded mostly sunny skies this morning with
low end advisory level gusts noted across east to west oriented 
mountains of Los Angeles (most notably near the I-5 corridor), 
Ventura and Santa Barbara counties. There were also isolated
advisory level gusts in the south facing foothills of the San
Fernando and Santa Clarita Valleys. These localized gusts should
subside this morning.

The moderate north push as indicated by the aforementioned gusts
filtering into the foothills will support good compressional 
heating for most valleys and some coasts, yielding 3 to locally 8 
degrees of warming (compared to yesterday) for daytime highs west
of the mountains, with cold air advection prompting 5 to locally 
10 degrees of cooling along and east of the mountains.

Late tonight into Monday still looking like a moderate Santa Ana
event focused across traditional areas of Los Angeles and Ventura
County. The Frost Advisory for late tonight into early Monday
morning looks reasonable for the Antelope Valley, especially 
along and west of Lancaster (not including Palmdale), where winds
are more likely to drop off and support better radiational 
cooling conditions. In fact the latest HREF ensemble guidance 
indicates a 50-75 percent of frosty temperatures for this area 
with a 20-30 percent chance of briefing hitting the freezing mark.

***From Previous Discussion***

As an upper trough slides east of the region today, it will
sharpen up some. This should allow for some increase in upper 
level support for winds later today as a little jetlet drops over 
SBA County, and northerly winds aloft and subsidence increase over
the area. Therefore, while winds will probably drop off to below 
advisory levels for a while today, they will likely increase again
late this afternoon or early this evening. Therefore, will extend
the advisory for portions of SBA County through tonight. At first, 
the strongest winds in SBA County may be across southwestern 
sections, but they should become more focused in the Montecito 
area by late this evening as the winds shift to a more NNE 
direction. Winds should drop below advisory levels across SBA 
County by daybreak Monday as low level flow turns northeasterly. 

Across the mtns of Ventura and Los Angeles County, there will also
likely be somewhat of a lull in the winds later today, with winds
increasing again by this evening. Models are still consistent in 
showing some fairly good upper support across L.A. and eastern 
Ventura Counties, with NE winds at 850 mb peaking out at 45 to 
perhaps 50 knots Mon morning, strong subsidence, and significant 
cold air advection. Expect winds to shift to NE in the mtns of 
L.A. and VTU Counties and increase tonight, with advisory level 
winds likely spreading into the Santa Clarita Valley, the northern
and western portions of the San Fernando Valley, eastern portions
of the Ventura County valleys, the Santa Monica mountains, and 
the Malibu Coast. Winds advisories have been issued for these 
areas west of the mtns from late tonight through early to mid Mon 
afternoon. Later shifts may have to include the Ventura County 
coast in the advisory, but at this time, confidence was not 
particularly high for that area. 

Where the winds drop off tonight it will be quite chilly, and
there may be frost in the Antelope Valley and possibly even in
portions of the SLO County valleys. Have issued a Frost Advisory 
for the Antelope Valley for tonight. 

An upper ridge builds into the region Mon and heights will rise. 
Skies will be clear tonight and Mon. With rising heights and 
offshore flow, max temps will jump up several degrees Mon, with 
highs likely reaching 80 degrees in the warmer locations west of 
the mtns in L.A. and VTU Counties. The gusty offshore winds will 
cause considerable drying with lowering humidities, causing 
elevated to brief critical fire weather conditions across much of 
L.A. and eastern VTU Counties tonight into Mon. Winds should drop
below advisory levels in most areas by Mon afternoon.

It will be another chilly night across the interior Mon night, and
some frost is possible once again in the Antelope Valley and
possibly in the interior valleys of SLO Counties. 

The ridge will begin to flatten out across the region Tue, though
heights do not fall that much. Gradients start offshore Tue, but 
flip onshore in the afternoon. Expect clear skies Mon night and 
Tue, with just a chance of some patchy low clouds and fog on the 
Central Coast. Max temps may be down a few degrees near the coast,
but little change in expected elsewhere west of the mtns, and 
there may actually be slight warming in the valleys. It will 
almost certainly warm in the mtns and deserts.

.LONG TERM (WED-SAT)...23/539 AM.

A trough will drop from the Pac NW into the Great Basin Wed, with
a broad trough extending into southern CA. Expect a return to 
night and morning low clouds and fog Tue night/Wed, with several 
degrees of cooling in most areas. Behind the trough, a northwesterly
flow pattern aloft and at this surface sets up across the region, 
so there should be some gusty NW-N winds across SBA County. A weak
ridge builds into the region Thu. The EC shows this hanging over 
the area into Sat, while the GFS shows a weak and broad trough
late Fri and Sat. The ensembles do not shed much additional light
on this, although it does appear that low level flow could go 
offshore Fri, which may lead to some warming and a reduction in 
any marine layer clouds. In any event, the weather looks quite 
benign and uneventful Thu thru Sat.

&&

.AVIATION...23/1116Z.

At 1015Z, there was no marine inversion at KLAX. However, there
was a moist layer up to 5000 feet. 

Overall, moderate to high confidence in 12Z TAF package. With no 
appreciable inversion, moist layer will generate a SCT-BKN025-035 
deck across sites south of Point Conception through 18Z. 
Afterwards, CAVU conditions are anticipated for all sites. 

Late in the TAF period, developing offshore flow may generate some
weak LLWS/Turbulence across the mountains and foothills, generally
after 02Z. 

KLAX...High confidence in 12Z TAF. There is a 20% chance of a
BKN025-035 deck 12Z-18Z. No significant easterly wind component is
expected. 

KBUR...Moderate confidence in 12Z TAF. Current timing of 
dissipation of MVFR deck could be +/- 2 hours of current 15Z 
forecast. For this afternoon and tonight, high confidence in CAVU
conditions.

&&

.MARINE...23/926 AM.

No changes to the marine forecast in the morning update. 

For the Outer Waters, moderate to high confidence in current 
forecast. For today and tonight, moderate confidence in GALE 
FORCE winds across PZZ670/673 and Small Craft Advisory (SCA) level
winds across PZZ676. On Monday, high confidence in winds and seas
remaining below SCA levels for PZZ670/673, but there is a 40% 
chance of SCA level northeast winds across PZZ676. For Tuesday 
through Thursday, there is a 50-60% chance of SCA level winds. 

For the Inner Waters north of Point Sal, moderate confidence in 
current forecast. Today through tonight, high confidence in SCA 
level winds in the afternoon/evening hours and marginal SCA level 
seas. For Monday and Tuesday, high confidence in winds and seas 
remaining below SCA levels. On Wednesday, there is a 50% chance of
SCA level winds in the afternoon and evening hours. On Thursday, 
high confidence in winds and seas remaining below SCA levels. 

For the Inner Waters south of Point Conception, moderate to high
confidence in current forecast. Today and tonight, high confidence
in SCA level winds across the western half of the Santa Barbara
Channel with conditions below SCA levels elsewhere. On Monday,
there is a 50% chance of SCA level northeast winds from Point Mugu
to Santa Monica. For Monday night through Tuesday night, high
confidence in winds and seas remaining below SCA levels. On
Wednesday, there is a 40-50% chance of SCA level winds across
western sections. On Thursday, high confidence winds and seas
remaining below SCA levels.

&&

.FIRE WEATHER...23/901 AM.

Northerly winds are expected to become more widespread and 
strengthen through this evening, with gusts generally between 25 
and 45 mph across the mountains, southern Santa Barbara county, 
Santa Clarita Valley, and San Fernando Valley. The above areas 
that see northerly winds will experience a drying trend today, 
with humidities lowering to between 15 and 30 percent, resulting 
in elevated fire weather conditions.

The flow will shift to the northeast tonight and Monday across 
Los Angeles and Ventura counties, resulting in the first Santa Ana
wind event of the season. Gusts between 25 and 45 mph are 
expected across the typical wind prone areas of Los Angeles and 
eastern Ventura counties, with isolated gusts as high as 50 mph
possible in the Los Angeles county mountains. The offshore winds 
are also expected to reach wind prone coastal areas of Ventura 
county and Malibu on Monday. Humidities will lower further on 
Monday with minimums between 8 and 16 percent. As a result, 
elevated to brief critical fire weather conditions can be expected
across much of Los Angeles and Ventura counties tonight into 
Monday. While there is about a 30 percent chance for a Red Flag 
Warning, the brevity of the critical wind and humidity combination
are limiting factors to consider. Winds will weaken Monday night 
and Tuesday morning.

&&

.LOX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
CA...Wind Advisory in effect until 3 PM PDT Monday for zones
      53-54. (See LAXNPWLOX).
     Frost Advisory in effect from 3 AM to 9 AM PDT Monday for
      zone 59. (See LAXNPWLOX).
     Wind Advisory in effect from 3 AM to 3 PM PDT Monday for
      zones 88-358-359-362-363-547. (See LAXNPWLOX).
     Wind Advisory in effect until 6 AM PDT Monday for zones
      349-351>353. (See LAXNPWLOX).
PZ...Small Craft Advisory in effect until 3 AM PDT Monday for
      zones 645-650-676. (See LAXMWWLOX).
     Gale Warning in effect until 3 AM PDT Monday for zones
      670-673. (See LAXMWWLOX).

&&

$$

PUBLIC...Munroe/DB
AVIATION...RAT
MARINE...Sweet/RAT
FIRE...Gomberg/Sirard
SYNOPSIS...DB

weather.gov/losangeles

Experimental Graphical Hazardous Weather Outlook at:
https://www.weather.gov/erh/ghwo?wfo=lox
